## Elf

* An ancient people, elves live beyond and remember before any other metahumans. The length of their lives and their exquisite memories feed their sorrow, their arrogance, their self-absorption. They rarely procreate for fear of passing the pain of the past onto their children. Elves reach maturity in their 20s but are considered young until their 100th birthday. They do not age after reaching maturity and do not die of old age. The long life of elves allows them see and remember far more pain than most races. They always carry the weight of sorrow with them. It shapes their willingness to act or to love. Sorrow, rightly ordered, allows them to mourn great losses, to remember them, and to stand against evil. Sorrow, wrongly oriented, causes them to withdraw and to give up on the world around them.
* XP Triggers
    * At the end of a session, mark 1 XP if you struggled with issues from your Vice. Mark XP for this if your Vice tempted you to some bad action. Simply Indulging your Vice doesn’t count as struggling with it (unless you overindulge).
    * At the end of a session, mark 1 XP if you struggled with issues from your Virtue. Mark XP for this if your Virtue drove you toward some good action that complicated the situation. Simply Exemplifying your Vice doesn’t count as struggling with it.
* Living:
    * You are ensouled and biologically alive.
* Senses:
    * Keen Ears and Starsight. You have Advantage on Action Rolls entirely dependent upon hearing. While Deafened, you suffer Slowed. In the presence of natural, captured, or reflected starlight, you see normally. You cannot see in the dark and in dim light suffer Disadvantage on Action Rolls requiring sight.
* Size:
    * Medium (5' × 5'), slender, averaging from 6' to 7' tall, and 140 to 220 pounds.
* Stride:
    * 30'. During combat, you may Act to move 30' through normal and difficult terrain.
* Virtue:
    * **Remembrance.**
        * The past led us to today; allow it to coach us into tomorrow.
* Vice:
    * **Sorrow.**
        * The weight of past pain weighs heavily on you; do not pass it on to others.
* Special Abilities
    * **Reflexes.**
        * When there's a question about who acts first, the answer is you.
            * You may choose to act *Cautiously* in combat, but if an enemy would attempt to act against you, you may take your turn before they do.
            * This ability gives you the initiative in most situations. Some specially trained NPCs might also have reflexes, but otherwise, you're always the first to act, and can interrupt anyone else who tries to beat you to the punch.
    * **The Eldersong.**
        * You know how to sing to perform ritual sorcery. You can **Study** a song (or create a new one) to summon a supernatural effect or being. You may sing without spending a **Downtime Action** (as is normal for rituals), but permanently mark one **Stress** for each song you know. You begin with one song already learned.
            * Follow the Ritual creation procedure with the GM to define your first song.
            * All elven songs are believed to be a manifestation of the eldersong.
* What is one thing that is true about Elves in this world?

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

\pagebreak
