## Orc

* Nature involuntarily twisted into hatred. Orcs reach maturity in their early teens. The brutal life of the orc means they rarely live past their 30s and only great heroes or villains live past their 40s. Whispered legends tell of still living orcs born before the founding of beacon. Orcs are known for their brutality, short lives, and disdain for others. These are manifestations of their internal hatred that boils over onto everything---beauty, pain, hope, food, and battle are all easy targets. The rare orcs that rise above this learn to channel their hatred into justice and toward things worth hating.
* XP Triggers
    * At the end of a session, mark 1 XP if you struggled with issues from your Vice. Mark XP for this if your Vice tempted you to some bad action. Simply Indulging your Vice doesn’t count as struggling with it (unless you overindulge).
    * At the end of a session, mark 1 XP if you struggled with issues from your Virtue. Mark XP for this if your Virtue drove you toward some good action that complicated the situation. Simply Exemplifying your Vice doesn’t count as struggling with it.
* Living:
    * You are ensouled and biologically alive.
* Senses:
    * Darksight. You can see in the dim and the dark as well as in the light.
* Size:
    * Medium (5' × 5'), from 4' to 7' tall and weighing 80 to 300 pounds.
* Stride:
    * 25'. During combat, you may Act to move 25' through normal terrain.
* Virtue:
    * **Justice.**
        * The afflicted, downtrodden, and oppressed look to you to represent them.
* Vice:
    * **Wrath.**
        * Everything is wrong; and you're going to fix it---or burn it down.
* Special Abilities
    * **Savage.**
        * When you unleash physical violence, it's especially frightening. When you **Command** a frightened target, gain **Edge**.
            * You instill fear in those around you when you get violent. How they react depends on the person. Some people will flee from you, some will be impressed, some will get violent in return. The GM judges the response of a given NPC.
            * In addition, when you **Command** someone who's affected by fear (from this ability or otherwise), gain Edge on your roll.
        - **Savage Strike**
            - Cost: Act.
            - Target: 1 creature you Threaten.
            - Attack: Skirmish/BODY! vs IRON and GRIT.
            - Hit vs IRON: (half Skirmish)[POW] + [BODY] *kinetic* damage
            - Hit vs GRIT: The target suffers *Terrified*.
        - Upgrades:
            - `[ ]` Savage Strikes (8 clock) - Instead of targeting 1 creature, you may target 2 creatures you Threaten by Attacking with Snag.
    * **Vengeful.**
        * You gain an additional **XP Trigger**:
            * At the end of a session, mark 1 XP if you got payback against someone who harmed you or someone you care about.
            * If your Chapter helped you get payback, also mark Chapter XP.
* What is one thing that is true about Orcs in this world?

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

\pagebreak
