# Advancement

Advancement is the mechanism by which your Chapter and your Character improve themselves. Experience Points (XP) is the currency used to measure Advancement. A player gains XP and assigns them to various Tracks on your Chapter and Character Sheet. When a track is filled, clear the track and take an Advancement.

## Awarded Advancements

As a GM, award the Chapter or Characters XP when they accomplish some significant goal, defeat a persistent villain, bring a corrupt Chapter to justice, or otherwise finish a campaign. Deciding when and how to award XP will help set the tone of the world and the game. Letting the players know ahead of time what actions you will award XP for to help them aim their campaign toward those goals. Players, if you have some specific campaign goal, talk to your GM, before completing that goal, about receiving XP---and how much---for completing that goal.

## Chapter Advancement

At the end of the session, review the Chapter XP triggers and mark 1 Chapter XP for each item that occurred during the session. The Chapter XP triggers are:

* Your Chapter-specific XP trigger:
    * For example, the Sin-eaters' is "At the end of a session, mark 1 XP if you protected civilization or absorbed evil." If the Chapter successfully completed an operation from this trigger, mark XP.
* Chapter-generic XP triggers:
    * "At the end of a session, mark 1 XP if you contended with challenges above your current station." If you tangled with higher Tiers or more dangerous opposition, mark XP for this.
    * "At the end of a session, mark 1 XP if you bolstered your Chapters's reputation or developed a new one." Review your Chapters's reputation. Did you do anything to promote it? Also mark XP if you developed a new reputation for the Chapters.
    * "At the end of a session, mark 1 XP if you expressed the goals, drives, inner conflict, or essential nature of the Chapter." This one is very broad! Essentially, did anything happen that highlighted the specific elements that make your Chapter unique?

**When you fill your Chapter advancement tracker** (8 XP Boxes), clear the marks and take an Advance---either a Special Ability or 2 Chapter Upgrade Boxes.

> For example, when a Chapter of Sin-eaters earns a Chapter advance, they could take a new Special Ability, like Forged in the Fire. Or they could mark 2 upgrades, like Composed and Knowledge of Evil.

Say how you've obtained this new Special Ability or Upgrades for the Chapter.

> Where did it come from? How does it become a new part of the Chapter?

## Profits

Every time the Chapter Advances, **each Character gets stash** equal to the Chapter Tier+2, to represent profits generated by the Chapter as they've been operating.

## Character Advancement

Each player keeps track of the Experience Points (XP) that their Character earns.

During the game session, mark XP:

* When you Push Yourself and Fail an Action Roll, mark 1 XP in the Attribute for the Action you rolled. For example, if you roll a Skirmish action, Push Yourself, and Fail, you mark XP in Body.

When you roll in a **group action** that's desperate, you also mark XP.

At the end of the session, review the XP Triggers on your character sheet. For each one, mark 1 XP if it happened. The XP triggers are:

* Your Archetype-specific XP trigger:
    * For example, the Warrior's is "At the end of a session, mark 1 XP if you addressed a challenge with coercion or violence." To "address a challenge," your character should attempt to overcome a tough obstacle or threat. It doesn't matter if the action is successful or not. You get XP either way.
* Your Bloodline-specific XP triggers:
    * Mark XP for this if your Virtue complicated an Adventure or if your Vice tempted you to some bad action. Simply Exemplifying your Vice doesn’t count as struggling with it, nor does Indulging your Vice count as struggling with it (unless you Overindulge).
    * For example, the Draconic's are:

        > At the end of a session, mark 1 XP if you struggled with issues from your Vice. Mark XP for this if your Vice tempted you to some bad action. Simply Indulging your Vice doesn’t count as struggling with it (unless you overindulge).

        > At the end of a session, mark 1 XP if you struggled with issues from your
        Virtue. Mark XP for this if your Virtue drove you toward some good action that complicated the situation. Simply Exemplifying your Vice doesn’t count as struggling with it.

* Your Character-specific XP triggers:
    * Every character has the following XP trigger: "At the end of a session, mark 1 XP if you eXPressed your beliefs, drives, traits, or background." Your character's beliefs and drives are yours to define, session to session. Feel free to tell the group about them when you mark XP.
* Your Special-Ability-specific XP triggers:
    * For example, the Orc's Vengeful Special Ability is "At the end of a session, mark 1 XP if you got payback against someone who harmed you or someone you care about." It doesn't matter how you get payback, as long as you do. If your Chapter helps you get payback, mark XP for the Chapter there as well.

You may mark end-of-session XP on any XP tracks you want (your Self XP track---8 XP Boxes---or any Attribute XP track---6 XP boxes).

**When you fill any Character XP track**, clear the marks and take an Advance. When you take an Advance from your Self track, you may choose an additional Special Ability from your Archetype or Bloodline. When you take an Advance from an Attribute, you may add an additional Action Dot to one of the Actions under that Attribute.

When you take an additional Action Dot, you may gain a Power requiring that Action. This Power must be one you have access to learn. You have access, by default, to all Common Powers and learn Uncommon, Rare, or Unique Powers from books, tomes, teachers, or masters.

> Nadja is playing a Rogue (Hunter). At the end of the session, she reviews her XP triggers and tells the group how much XP she's getting. She Pushed Herself twice when Hunting and failed both, so she marked 2 XP on her Mind XP track. She addressed several challenges with audacity or stealth, so she marks 1 XP for that. She expressed her Background many times when dealing with the gang from her homeland, so she takes 1 XP for that. She also showcased her character's beliefs, but 1 XP is the maximum for that category, so she doesn't get any more. She didn't struggle with her Vice or Virtue, so no XP there. That's 2 XP at the end of the session. She decides to put it all in her Mind XP track. This fills 4 boxes in the track, so she needs only 2 more to fill the track and add a new Action Dot in **Hunt**.

You can also earn XP by **Training** during downtime. When you Train, mark XP in your Self track or in one of your Attribute tracks. A given XP track can be trained only once per Downtime.

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

\pagebreak
